As you know, platforms are revolutionizing a lot of sectors, I would say all of them.
And what I want is that you understand well what are the benefits, the differences between a platform type model and a traditional one.
And today what we are going to do is reinforce that knowledge by analyzing a case.
We are going to analyze the case of Jovan Talent.
And we are going to do it again, first hand, with the testimony of Felix Ruiz,
who is one of the architects of Jovan Talent's success and also one of the founding partners of The Power MBA.
Before sharing with you the talks we have had with Felix, I want to give you a series of facts about Jovan Talent.
I want you to understand the company a little more.
Jovan Talent is a company that is well known for various reasons.
One of them is that it has always been very heavily capitalized.
In several financing rounds, it has raised about 80 million euros.
And it has initially had many problems.
Despite having a lot of money, it had many problems.
And it has also been in the press because they had to fire people, etc.
There have been many rumors about it.
But it is also true that from April 2016, Jovan Talent decided to pivot in its business model.
It decided to evolve its business model.
It decided to go back to the previous model and develop a new model that has been a real success.
And from April 2016, sales skyrocketed.
We are talking about the fact that it is currently transacting about 6 million a month.
I'm going to leave you with Felix and Rafa.
Felix is going to start by telling us about the beginnings, the first business model of Jovan Talent.
And then we will analyze it.
Felix, for four years you have been 100% dedicated to the Jovan Talent project.
Tell us what Jovan Talent is and give us a little more detail about what the business model of Jovan Talent is.
Jovan Talent is a platform that is obviously oriented to the employment sector.
Initially, the idea of Jovan Talent was that it was a recruitment platform,
a tool that companies would use to hire staff or to look for candidates,
but adapted to the new world, the mobile world.
Until now, everything was desktop, everything was web pages through which you could look for candidates.
But for a few years now, the mobile has evolved a lot and we wanted to move that to a mobile application.
From there we realized that the market was already quite solid with the products that were available
and it was very difficult to penetrate and compete against the existing classifieds,
which at the time in Spain were Infojobs, in the United States it was Monster,
and they were already very, very, very settled in the markets.
So, despite that, we fought a lot and tried to consolidate that same model adapted to the mobile, but it was very complicated.
We don't need to go into detail about why things didn't work, but Felix has given us some clues.
They tried to compete with digital platforms like Monster or Infojobs,
which already added supply and demand through a platform, but the Jovan Talent model turned out to be unsuccessful.
And as they say, rectify is the wise man.
And from April 2016 they decided to pivot or evolve their business model and Felix is going to tell us about it.
We have lived many stages, we have raised a lot of funding and two years ago we had to make some decisions.
We have raised a lot of capital, we continue to push this model that we no longer see scalable or we make the decision to change it.
And that's when we turned around and what we did was, having all the experience of capturing candidates,
we decided to transform them into a temporary work company, but much more digitized.
That is, just like the low-cost mobile operators, because they work much more with technology or have much more optimized processes,
why not propose the same, a low-cost model, just like the airlines, which are low-cost,
to do it with the employment sector, the temporary employment sector, as there are temporary work companies,
either in Ransdata, DECO, Manpower, which have very high cost of structure and quite rudimentary processes.
Why not digitize all those processes and, in a way, optimize the costs much more to create the low-cost of the staffing, of the hiring.
What do you offer to the user looking for employment? What do you offer to the company looking for employment?
How do you get to them? What is the capture model of each of them? Tell us a little more in detail, who do you charge from?
Well, the candidate or the employee, what he is looking for is work.
That employee or that candidate will always be trying to find, through all the sources he can, any type of work.
And Jopantalen, in that case, is one more. In that sense, we cannot say that we offer something super special.
It is true that we move a lot of employment, but we also move a lot of employment and many traditional companies.
So, what we do is also think, apart from taking care of that candidate, as other temporary employment companies can do,
what things we can give to the company to make us more attractive than our competitors.
Basically, there are three things we call volume, speed and quality.
Volume, in the end, we were born in a digital world, where for us, capturing candidates is much easier than it can be for a traditional one.
A traditional one, to give you an idea, has offices all over Spain or all over the world, where people go and ask if they can help them find employment.
We do not have cost structure, we do not have offices and what we do directly is communicate through the internet.
Hey, we have these job offers with these companies, we demand these positions, if you are interested, let us know.
So, from there, we capture candidates every day at very high levels in terms of volume and we have solved part of those candidates with that.
On the other hand, we obviously have the part of company capture. We do not have commercials that will visit the companies or we have very few commercials that will visit the companies,
but we do exactly the same, we let all companies know our platform through the internet.
So, all this means that you have a structure cost and operations much more reduced than traditional ones.
We start with the technical part of the class. What we are going to do is, using the Business Model Canvas, we are going to analyze the disruption in the business model of Job and Talent
and we are going to compare it with the traditional models of a temporary job company.
The first thing I want you to understand is that there are similarities, both Job and Talent and its traditional competitors.
The value proposition is mainly to connect the supply and demand of work. Therefore, there are two segments of clients.
On the one hand, you have the companies and on the other hand, you have the candidates who want to work in those companies, who are interested in those jobs.
And in both cases, the two models generate variable income through the intermediation in that type of operations.
But we are going to analyze, from what Felix has told us, what is the model of its competitors, of a traditional temporary job company.
Felix told us what the ETT proposal is. The value proposition of an ETT is mainly based on the people, the ETT employees, who offer an advice
and establish one-to-one relationships between the ETT employees and the two segments of clients, the companies and the candidates.
On the part of the companies, the ETT has to have sellers, with merchants who capture those companies.
And also, to provide services to the candidates, offices are needed. Therefore, the ETT has to have an extensive network of offices.
And all this has enormous implications in terms of resources and costs. As we see, we have put the same in the key resources section as in the costs.
Mainly, an ETT has to have a very large template and also a network of offices that cover the entire national geography.
Well, from this photo, which we have described very well the model of an ETT negotiation, we are going to see what have been the innovations generated by Jovan Talent.
Let's start with the first thing Felix told us. He has talked about technology.
Jovan Talent, instead of relying on people and offices in this type of asset, relies on a totally different asset, which is a technological platform that connects supply and demand.
Therefore, there are no longer personal relationships between the ETT employees and the two segments of clients, but digital relationships, as we see here.
This also generates greater value in terms of immediacy, in terms of fast matching, because the platform is very efficient connecting the two segments of clients.
Felix also told us that we do not need offices, we do not need sellers. Indeed, Jovan Talent does not need offices or sellers to connect or to establish relationships with its clients.
It is all digital, it is all online. The capture strategy, for example, is done through online marketing.
Well, all this, how does it affect? That the costs are much lower because the structure is much lighter.
And we are going to summarize, in three main values, the innovation generated by Jovan Talent.
1. Offers more value to customers thanks to immediacy. The platform, as we said, is very efficient, connecting very quickly and agilely to supply and demand for work. Much more than the people who work in an ETT.
2. Being a lighter company, which does not depend on sellers or offices, is much more scalable, it can grow much faster.
And as Felix told us, it also has a competitive advantage over ETTs because their costs are much lower and can offer more economic rates than a traditional ETT.
And to finish, what we are going to do from Power MBA is to congratulate the three architects of the success of Jovan Talent, Felix Ruiz, Juan Urdiales and Felipe Navio,
who, despite having had a very bad time, have been able to overcome very complicated circumstances, have been able to pivot and evolve their business model and are currently in an ascending phase,
in which they will clearly become the main player in the sector of temporary work, both in Spain and in all the markets in which they are present.